## Networking
### IP Addresses
Computers only understand numbers, so of course in order to identify computers communicating on a network, we need to assign a unique number to each computer. IP (Internet Protocol) Addresses are these unique identifiers. 

There are 2 types of IP addresses in use today: IPv4 and IPv6. IPv4, as the name suggests, was the 4th version of the Internet Protocol released in the early 1980s, and declared that IP addresses would be 32 bits long (usually written as 4 8-bit numbers separated by dots like this: 192.168.1.0). This allowed around 4 billion possible IP addresses. At the time this probably seemed like more than enough addresses, but with the rapid growth in personal computing and internet usage, it soon became clear that IPv4 addresses would be exhausted sooner than many thought. With the growth in personal and mobile computing, and a world population of 7+ billion, there aren't enough IPv4 addresses for every person to have even just 1 unique internet-connected device. Given the rapid rise of mobile computing and IoT, it seems likely many people will want several internet connected devices (phones, tablet, other smart/IoT devices). In fact, this is already the case since there are an estimated 3 billion internet usesrs, but 20+ billion internet-connected devices. Workarounds such as network address translation (NAT) were developed to allow devices on private networks to connect to the internet, preserving IPv4 addresses. However, an ideal situation would allow everyone to have their own unique, public address for each device.

To solve the issue, IPv6 was introduced in the 1990s with IP addresses getting 128 bits, which allows for about 340 trillion, trillion, trillion addresses, unlikely to be exhausted in the forseeable future. Instead of dot separated 8-bit numbers, IPv6 addresses are usually represented as 8 colon-seperated groups of 4 hexadecimal digits. While IPv6 is 20+ years by now, IPv4 is still the dominant protocol on the internet, although IPv6 usage is increasing.

### Protocols
Networking requires the cooperation of lots of complex systems, both hardware and software. To help develop this complex stack of technologies, various protocols dictating how devices and software would transmit data to each other. Ideally, if these protocols were very well designed and specified, someone could work on another level or protocol of the networking stack while knowing verying little about the other levels. Of course, this doesn't always work out in practice. Still, protocols are very helpful in separating and thinking about parts of the networking stack.

The lowest level protocols are involved with the hardware of networking: switches, routers, hubs, network interface devices and controllers, cables, etc. The protocols that describe how Ethernet and Wi-Fi should work (IEEE 802.3 and 802.11) are at this level. (In fact, these might be more accurately described as standards instead of protocols, since they define, among other things, physical properties of hardware such as frequency and voltage.) These are generally of more ineterst to electrical and hardware engineers, so if you are a developer or sysadmin, you probably won't need to be too concerned with how these protocols work at a deep level. 

As we go up the stack and farther away from hardware, we have the Internet Protocol (IP) and the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). While the lower levels protocols for Ethernet and Wi-Fi describe how devices find each other in local networks, the Internet Protocol controls how devices find each other across connected networks. The LAN layers already use an address to help locate and direct traffic to devices, known as a media acces control (MAC) address. In theory, MAC addresses are tied to device upon manufacturing and are globally unique. However, in practice manufacturers aren't always very good at upholding this, and even if they did, there are ways to fake the  MAC address in software known as MAC address spoofing. In any case, while MAC addreses allow devices to be located on a local area network (LAN), they are not enough to locate devices across any network in the world. To solve this problem, the Internet Protocol introduces the aptly named IP addresses.